---
title: "Keegan's Class Reflection"
date: 2022-01-26T13:45:49-07:00
author: "Keegan Hegel"
draft: true
---
## My CSC-490 Class Reflection

Going into CSC-490, I was not sure what to expect as I am somewhat new to computer science in general. I only recently decided to change my major from psychology to computer science/business so initially, I was a bit nervous about how I would perform in this class with it being only my third ever CS course. However, I quickly came to really enjoy my experience in in this class and feel the knowledge I have acquired from it will be very useful for me in the future.

In the first week of CSC-490, we were taught the basics of using the bash shell and how it can be much more interactive and efficient for creating and managing files on a computer. After seeing all the various aspects and advantages of using a shell to manage my device, instead of the cpu's normal file explorer, I was very excited to learn more. Within the first couple days, I quickly began to see how the material in this class would be very useful for real world applications. 

The second week of this class explored VS Code which is a code editor that, when utilizes correctly, employs many features to maximize simplicity and efficiency for the user when writing code. I appreciated this section of the class very much as it showed how using VS Code can substantially improve the ease of programming, nomatter what language you are writing in. I particularly enjoyed exploring the various extensions available for VS Code and their practical implementations for improving the users overall experience when programming. After this, in the third and final week of this class, we learned about git, a software that allows users to effectively monitor and collaborate on a project. I fealt this section of the class dealing with git really brought awareness to me about how the skills I have acquired in my computer science courses would look when applied to a real world work environment. Going into this semester, my previous two computer science classes dealt strictly with the programming language of Python and I found it very intriguing to see how the knowledge I gained from those classes would be improved upon by the material taught in this course. I can now manage my Python scripts within a shell or make use of the advantages to writing Python in VS Code opposed the less efficient code editors I had used in the past. I often found myself throughout this course going back to assignments I had previously done in other computer science classes and redoing them with the knewly acquired skills from this class. CS is something that I have always been very interested in, however the concepts introduced in this class have really made me enjoy this field to an even greater extent than I did before. 

My time in this class has made me feel a lot better about the computer science classes I will take in the future. During this course I found myself very excited each day to come to class which has not been something that normally the case for me in the past. Since I am a Junior this year and only recently changed my major, I was initially very anxious that I would be behind and have trouble staying up with the course work in my future classes. However, I feel that this class has given me a different outlook and I know feel much less nervous and more excited about my upcoming classes.

Although this class was not required for the computer science major, I could not be happier with deciding to take this course as I can see how beneficial it will be for me in the future. Throughout this course, a few things that really stood out to me were the hands on learning aspect of the class, as well as, once again, experiencing how valuable the material taught throughout this class will be when applied to real world context. I think the times we did in-class work contributed greatly to furthering my understanding of the courses topics. Seeing how a project is normally carried out on a softward development team has made be very interested in possibly pursuing a career like this in the future. Overall, I have had a very positive time in this class and very satisfied with the experience and knowledge that I have acquired from this course.
